It's going to be easy.
I can assure you that any administration that I'm responsible for everything it can in the occupation to restore peace and stability and harmony.
Would you just say once again, as president of the United States, I would.
I wonder if you could.
I might have dismissed that as far.
Everything I can in that occupation to provide whatever help we can
eventually through the United Nations to restore the kind of peace, harmony, stability which I think all people of goodwill in the Greek and circus peoples would like to say to restore.
But in my judgment,
In 1974, I think it was 74, wasn't it when that took place?
I believe in 1974, the United States could have stopped it, and we didn't do it.
Have you ever been to Greece, sir?
Yes, 1976.
I was supposed to go back with my dear wife this May.
Unfortunately, something else had been.
Kenny's been there, I don't know, four times or something.
But we had plans to go back in May this year.
but we had a wonderful visit in 76 in my first administration the greek government invited kidding me over and we not only spent time in athens but we visited my mother's house we went to the although my dad grew up in asia minor which was a town about a predominantly greek town about 30 miles from smyrna his parents were committed in so we went back to
the village way up in the mountains.
And the name of the village until recently was Bagheia, literally.
And the story we were told was back in the 15th, 16th century, whatever, pirates were constantly invading coastal villages, and burning and pillaging and killing the men and taking the women and children.
Finally, a group of these
a group of people in one of those coastal villages decided that they just wouldn't put up with it anymore and they wanted to go someplace where they could get away from the pirates and laugh again and so on so they ran up in the mountains and they found it this little village which was named Dagella seven or eight ten years ago I guess it was maybe longer now it might have been seven or eight years prior to 1976 for some reason they decided to change the name to Pelopi P-E-L-O-P-I so it is now known as Pelopi
I always heard it as a kid.
We went up there and the whole town was out waiting for us.
What year was this?
76.
Well, the most emotional experience of my life.
Have you ever met Mr. Papandreou?
Yes.
In fact, I first met him when he was here in Boston during the... He was teaching, I think, in Canada at the time and came to...
meeting here in Boston and Andy Miller rallying in Boston.
We met with Carmen Lease and some of the top Greek officials in 76 when we were there, but he was Carmen Grao at that time.
What are your impressions of Mr. Carmen Grao and his government?
Do you have any?
Well, he's an interesting man.
He's very independent.
I think the reason the United States ought to have a better relationship than we have today, I think, as President and I, could help to build that kind of relationship.
I would look forward to working with him and the Greek government and the Greek people.
There's been a lot of antagonism and a lot of tension between us and the Cabrera government.
During these past six or seven years, there's plenty of blame to go around, but in my judgment, we have a much better relationship.
I would love to have the opportunity to build that country.
There is tremendous tension between Greece and Turkey, each of which is an important NATO ally.
Do you think that, as a Greek-American, you could help affect some kind of rapprochement, or do you think you could be perceived... I hope so.
I hope so.
I just want to ask the question.
Are you could be perceived by the government in Ankara as biased in favor of athletes?
Well, I'm an American first, obviously, but I'm proud of my Greek heritage.
That's the way I approach the presidency.
And there's no question that as long as the Turkish occupation of Cyprus continues, that's going to be a festering sore in the relationship, along with some of the properties that have recently occurred in Aegean.
But, you know, my father grew up in Western Turkey, and it was very important that they
stability and as much harmony as possible within nato and between greece and turkey i think i think it's possible to make some real progress in improving that relationship with the help of the united states how do you think turkish officials view the prospects of a dukakish presidency well i have an answer i would hope you haven't heard any hints or i would hope that they would
approach it in a positive and constructive spirit.
You enjoy a well-earned reputation for honesty, integrity, and truthfulness.
Yet with the disclosure last month of your wife Kitty's treatment during her first term for a diet pill dependency, it was reported that when she was in Minnesota to cure that problem, you announced that she was being treated for something else.
Perhaps you might enlighten us on just when it is permissible for a public official to perhaps deceive the public, or at least not be entirely forthcoming.
It was her decision, not mine, and I respect it.
She had this problem.
She'd come to a point in her life where she felt very strongly that she had to rid herself of that dependency.
She just did not feel that she could do so in public.
She had to do it as a personal and private matter.
I respected that and respected her wishes that it would be a personal and private matter unless and until she chose herself.
that are otherwise permitted to become public.
We had a number of friends who knew about it and were extremely helpful and supportive.
But I don't think my wife's health or my children's health or my parents' health is relevant to my business to be president of the United States.
My health is.
And I accept that.
Was your wife's decision to make that announcement influenced in any way by the extraordinary attention given to the private life of Gary Hart and the events that led to his withdrawal as a candidate?
This was her decision.
She would have done this whether I was a candidate or not.
She's a very caring, helping person.
I think everybody knows she's had any experience with chemical dependency.
You can be a lot more helpful if you share your own experiences with others.
She was ready to do that.
I'm sure would have done so.
With the withdrawal of Senator Hart, the Democratic field has become something of a steeplechase with no clear-cut favor.
What do you need to break away from the fact?
Hard work, a very strong message of economic opportunity and good jobs, a foreign policy that reflects our values.
And that's what we're going to do.
Have you given any thought to who you would like to have as a running mate?
I have not.
What we thought at this point is to go out and win the nomination.
Then I'll start thinking about it.
Who do you think would be toughest among the Republicans to beat?
I really have no idea at this point.
I think one of the things a campaign does is to test people out.
You never know until they've gone through a test of that kind.
I think we'll just have to wait and see.
And if your bid falls short, would you accept the vice presidential nomination?
I don't know at this point.
I love being the governor of my state.
I'm very proud of what we've done in Massachusetts.
And I'm still working very hard, even the force of the campaign, to continue to do my job and do it well.
I think I just have to consider that one as an if.
Sorry.
It became a possibility.
And guess what?
We got it all in.
Thank you very much, Governor Dan.
Thank you.
There are two things before I let you hear from the next president of the United States.
It's important for us to get together like this, and we thank you for, and I thank you for, for coming.
But we answer as a tradition, and that is no one has been elected president of the United States since 1948, other than they first watched the New Hampshire primary.
No one.
And there are people who are talking about the Nazis being ahead in any recognition of the state.
And there are those who gave up already as long as they said that it was strong right there.
New Hampshire has a way of the process.
And if you ask that identity, and you can ask that identity, that New Hampshire can be very tough on neighbor politicians.
But it's important for people to leave here today
With an envelope, they ask somebody to contribute a dollar, $5, whatever they can, you contribute it in here.
$5 will be managed by another $5, and it will be $10.
So take an envelope and just mail it in.
Leave it with a supporter, even if there's no money in it.
Just put the name of a supporter for my new guy.
It would be important.
Find five friends, five people that you can register and get them committed to the campaign.
In 1988, there will be about 100 to 105,000 ghost deaths in the state of New Hampshire in a Democratic primary.
This probably here today can make a difference.
I can assure you that if we all contribute and commit ourselves to delivering five votes, even five votes, for my prize, he will win decisively in the primary, and I'm sure will be the next president of the United States.
So please, beyond the nice move and the entertainer that we're going to have today,
There are things that need to happen in this state, in this world of political.
We've got a couple of people that will entertain you as we go around.
We're going to meet everybody.
Rick and Ron Shaw are here with David Scott from the original Kingston Trio.
Costa and George have been waiting for us.
We've seen a couple of songs from the governor.
The show brothers are very famous singers.
They've got a couple of songs to sing.
And one of them is going to be going to have a return.
Because the people of the restitution are wondering, why do you guess the question?
It's a great day.
Thank you so very much for coming up with the help of myself.
The Brooks, Tally, Tally, and Thaw, and the other of our group of Indiana.
And everybody else who's down this morning, I now introduce you to the next President of the United States, Mike Brayden.
Chris, Maria, all of you thank you very, very much, and our host here at Around the Sound Restaurant.
What a nice man.
It would be nice to have around the sound of this country tonight.
Mary, who has been so good today and so pretty to all of you and really bravely here,
In the Panger House, I'm saying she's got a democratic budget out for a public government.
By the way, I'm Mr. Ambassador and Governor's Association of Congress in Michigan.
We're a government manager of the government that's used to kind of that.
I suppose a less set on that event, except to say that I'm getting hopelessly confused on some of these regional software issues.
How do you leave the state's rights to battle against you?
I don't understand.
It's possible.
In fact, I really am.
I would like to say that states and communities and people in this country have the right to shape their destiny and determine their future and make decisions themselves and their fellow citizens.
But that...
The important and crucial issue of whether or not we're going to protect the public health and safety of our people, states and multiple communities, will have to not be consent.
Not consent.
Well, we're going to change that.
That's what this is all about.
I said to some of you a few weeks ago at another great Democratic event in the state, all the great things about the United States, the first thing you do is appoint a new chair of the director of this.
Let me say thanks to all of you.
Chris has made the introductions, and I just want to add my own special thank you to all of you, and especially those of you in political office.
Before I came to the city to run for the presidency of making me know, I worked a hard six-day week, but Sunday was family day.
Katie and I worked very, very hard for the trip that day for ourselves and our kids, and I know what it means to come out upon a Sunday.
particularly when you are in a life of office and working hard for your decisions.
I'm especially grateful to you for doing that today.
Of course to Chris and Maria for inviting all of you and Mary for coming down.
I'm not going to be with us.
And I'm especially grateful to a visitor who has come all the way to the state of Kansas, who actually grew up in Springfield a few years ago, who should be the first lady of Kansas and missed by a hair.
Jill Docking is with us.
Husband's son is the third governor of Kansas.
I'm sorry to say he wasn't there, Mr. Jill.
He should have been.
The governor of Kansas was, as I assure her, and who knows that tonight, there is life after defeat.
Right?
I'm very grateful for just coming and being part of this, and I hope you all give her a good warm hand of love.
So she's your friend and the neighbor.
Some of you are, some of you aren't, but I just want you to know what the governor of Massachusetts, a guy who says, he's going to be the next one in the United States, we're doing a six-part swan.
See, one of my problems is that my vegetable garden is very important.
And if the value of cruiser, briefly,
I have a vegetable garden.
Now, I have a vegetable garden in my front yard.
I need to know because this is the only place I have sun.
But this is terrible.
And I've been on the road for eight days.
I can't water those things.
I can't take care of it.
So I just want you all to know.
I was out of about 6 or 6 or 16 this morning, elevating my middle plans, weeding them, watering, trying my best to deal with this very hot sun with the mask before coming out here.
So I don't want you to remember that I've been working in my chores around the house.
This has been an incredible performance.
For me, Kitty, by the way, sends her greetings and apologies.
She's on her way to Seattle.
She'll be campaigning in the state of Washington and the state of Washington for the next couple of days.
And really, through a lot of us, including some terrific people who are staffing our financial office and working with somebody to do.
As all of you know, I took a long time thinking about the president, thinking about running.
It wasn't an easy decision.
I love New England.
I love Massachusetts.
I love my job as governor.
I'm very proud of what we've done.
There and throughout New England, we've built economic opportunities and good jobs for good news for ourselves and our fellow citizens.
I think we all are.
But there's nothing quite like money for the president of the United States.
And I want you to know this.
It's wonderful to be home and wonderful to be among some of your friends.
But if there's one thing that campaigning across this country does, it reminds one, once again, of just what a great country this is and what terrific we have on our country.
You are part of a network of literally thousands and thousands of good people, caring people, concerned people.
every evening about this country in our future.
And where we're headed, what we're doing, not just in the United States, but all over this world.
Last Saturday night, I was in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.
I've never been in South Dakota.
400 people showed up in Sioux Falls, South Dakota Saturday night, about 100 degrees.
To see, to listen, to talk, to exchange ideas.
A month ago, I was in the Iron Range in Evo, Minnesota.
Way up in our country, one of the great old lion, mighty wings of this world.
It lost 10,000 jobs in eight years in the immigration.
I saw that 500 people showed up at breakfast.
They had breakfast for governor Massachusetts.
I've been campaigning all over Iowa, it's all you know.
Places like Waterloo have lost 15,000 jobs in seven years.
And three weeks ago, Friday night, I was in McHale, Texas, eight miles from the Mexican border,
where 1,200 people were sitting, waiting for me to shed a night apart at night at 100 degrees, 90% of the Mexican in America.
Why?
Because one out of every five adult citizens of the Rio Grande Valley was people working that night.
So while we enjoy our good worship here in New England, while we work hard to build a strong, vibrant, and honor future for our people, for our kids, for our families, for our community,
There's one campaign across this country, one understands that there are real concerns and real needs and real wants.
And a vacuum of leadership in places all over this country that are looking, searching, asking for somebody in the presence who understands their problem, cares deeply about them and their families and communities, and wants to do something about them.
And that's why this four months
There have been four or two different months.
That's why we're off such good stuff.
And that's why I think we're beginning to build and now a base, a foundation, a network of people across this country that are going to put together the kind of campaign that you and I believe in and care about and that we're working so hard to create by their new name.
And one of the things that I hear all the time this year, one of the things that people talk to me about all the time,
something called baggage principles because it isn't going to be enough for a candidate in the presidency to have a position on every one of 177 issues addressed about from time to time as long as you know we can't do government institutions without having a position on at least 177 issues to make friends yes those are important where we stand on this issue with that issue with some other issues
But the more I'm out there campaigning, the more I have a chance to talk, listen, exchange ideas for people in farm houses with the farm families that I know, with miners up in Minnesota, with workers down in Texas and people all over this country, the more I have a sense that what they want to know, in addition to where we are on all these issues, is who are we?
What are we?
What are we made of it?
What do we stand for?
What are our values?
What do we believe in?
What are the things that are going to guide us, that we want to guide us, in January 1989, are the front challenges and problems and issues that you and I can't possibly make today?
And that is why it's such a special honor, in a special way, to be
in this restaurant with so many of you in this city, in this city and welcome my dad to this country way back in 1912 because this is where the first came.
And those values and those things that so many of us care about, family, work, education, setting up kids to school, helping them to get their education, building safe and attractive communities,
providence, character, the things are paradoxical.
Those are the things that people in this country are looking for today.
And unfortunately, what they do seeing and reading and watching over the course of the past several weeks don't give them much of a sense that today we're being led by people that believe in that, that have principles.
And understand what this country is all about and what our political system is all about.
Unfortunately, I haven't had to watch my television set in the past four weeks or five weeks or whatever.
I've been campaigning very hard.
And I'm not particularly interested in who the television celebrity is from the moment.
I'm interested in where we're going and what we're doing in this country.
And what is it that guides us?
One of the most conservative principles in the history of mankind
and we've got a configuration, is something called the rule of law.
It is a very conservative principle when you think of it.
The idea that people come together and make laws and agree to be abound by those laws.
And if they don't have to agree with a particular law, they change it only in accordance with the Constitution.
That is something the Athenians gave us.
It's something the founders of this country gave us.
It's something that is embodied in the Constitution, whose 200th anniversary you can celebrate this year.
There is nothing in the Constitution of the United States, and I've read and read that document many times and done it from any new way.
There's nothing in there about 5,000 foreign policy.
Did you notice?
There's nothing in there.
It doesn't say anything about 5,000 foreign policy.
There's no such thing in this country.
The genius of the American political system is that it's open and accountable.
Now, whether we like it or not, it's sometimes kind of uncomfortable for those of us in positions of political leadership.
Everything we do, everything we do, has to be done with an understanding of sooner or later we'll be subject to public scrutiny, and that goes to the people who work for us.
Nobody, my friends, nobody in this country is above the law, not present,
That means all of us are the people who work for us.
All of us are the people who work for us.
Senator Orrin and Hatch, last week, made one of the most interesting statements in American history, I thought.
I don't think you've caught it.
Senator Hatch, you know, has been, I guess he's been apparently investigated.
Senator Hatch said, and I quote, and I think this is almost an accurate quote, an exact quote.
He said, I don't see any reason
why the President of the United States has to be briefed on every important foreign policy issue.
That's what the man says.
He says it.
We haven't heard a statement like that since Senator Foster of Nevada, Joe.
Remember, he said he had a little mediocrity in Supreme Court of the United States.
He doesn't think the President of the United States has to be briefed on every important foreign policy issue.
It's not the kind of guy that I would do.
respect for the Congress.
These are the things that have given us a very special and unique political system.
A system which, by the way, with all of our faults and all of our weaknesses and all of the occasional stumbling we do, is a symbol and an inspiration for people all over this world.
All over this world.
Because these aspirations of human rights and liberty and
pre-expression are not just ours.
They're things that people believe in and aspire to everywhere.
In Latin America, in the Philippines, in South Korea, and yes, in China, the Soviet Union today.
It's a universal aspiration.
And we of the nation, it is our political system that people look to for guidance, for inspiration, for hope.
And that means that not only do we have to be true to those values and principles here at home,
We have to be true to those values and principles all over the world.
Whether it's Central America or in Asia or in the Persian Gulf.
People ask me all the time these days, whether or not I think we ought to put American flags in the way you can't.
Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a war that's been going on in the Persian Gulf for seven years.
Longer than World War II between Iran and Iraq.
And while that war has been going on, for shutting in hundreds of thousands of people killed and maimed and crippled, 13- and 14-year-olds being thrown into that war's handbook, every one of the five permanent members of the U.S.
Security Council
Ourselves, the Soviet Union, the British, the French, and the Chinese.
The five nations who are under the charge of the U.N.
is supposed to have a special responsibility for keeping the peace and stopping conflict.
Every one of those five nations has been selling arms.
We have the Russians' arms and the both sides.
The French, the British, the French in the day field does nothing all day long but run military equipment in Iraqis.
The British is selling spare parts to the Iranians.
under what they say is a contract they had with the Shah.
Now look, I'm a colossal woman.
I'm a great believer in Anglo-Saxon Jurisdurts.
I mean, that's absurd.
And the Chinese have provided about a billion dollars.
These are the five nations who have a special responsibility for stopping conflict and for understanding that conflict anywhere potentially is conflict everywhere.
And that's what we see in the first government.
We don't need American flags.
What we can't is we need a ceasefire, an environmental foreign arms seal, so you want to see more as necessary.
But our responsibility is to stop that war.
That's what I mean when I talk about American flags and American principles.
And about what this nation means.
Means to go to us as parents, changing here, seeking opportunity, seeking the earth and green.
Means to people all over the world, who in their own way, in their own special way, are seeking the kind of things of my parents and your parents.